h1. Domain Model

The domain model for this library attempts to align with the models that exist in Weewar and found in the XML documents returned by calls to the API.

h2. Current User (aka Director)

The central model is the current user, the one with the API Token, your account on Weewar; the director.  The director is in charge of the spy you create.  The director contains many properties and a collection of games.

h2. System Models

This library attempts to implement each Unit and Terrain element found in Weewar.  The online reference used to implement these models is found here: 

h3. Additional Property

This library adds a Location object to each Unit and Terrain.  This is for future use.

h2. Games

On par with Current User, a Game is an important domain model.  A Game contains many properties and collections.

h3. Current Player

Each Game has a Current Player.

h3. Players

This is the list of players currently attached to the selected game.  This includes all player states.  The player state is found in the Factions collection.  Each Player has a corresponding Faction within a Game.

h3. Factions

Each Player within a Game has a set of Units and Terrains.

h4. Units

A Unit represents the things in Weewar that can be purchased; the Military Forces for a Player.  Each Unit has a Location and a Quantity (a relative Health rating).

h4. Terrain

A Terrain element represents the things in Weewar that can be captured.  Bases are the only Terrain that generates income.

